establishing and organizing public institutions;
3. overseeing the implementation of the general development plan; and
4. forming committees to review the performance of ministries and other government agencies or in relation to any specific case. Such committees shall submit their findings at a time set by the Council. The Council shall review such findings and may accordingly form investigative committees to decide on such findings, in accordance with laws and regulations. Financial Affairs
Article 25
The government may not conclude a loan contract without the approval of the Council of Ministers and the issuance of a royal decree to that effect. Article 26
The Council of Ministers shall review the State budget and vote on it, chapter by chapter. Such budget shall be promulgated by royal decree. Article 27
Any supplement to the budget shall only be made by royal decree. Article 28
The Minister of Finance and National Economy shall submit the closing account for the State’s ending fiscal year to the President of the Council of Ministers who shall refer it to the Council of Ministers for approval. Presidency of Council of Ministers
Article 29
The King, as President of the Council of Ministers, shall direct the State’s public policy; ensure guidance, coordination, and cooperation among the various government agencies; ensure harmony, continuity, and unity in all functions of the Council of Ministers; supervise the Council of Ministers, ministries, and government agencies; and monitor the implementation of laws, regulations, and resolutions. All ministries and other government agencies shall submit to the President of the Council of Ministers within 90 days from the beginning of each fiscal year, a report on their achievements in light of the general development plan for the ending fiscal year. The report shall include the difficulties encountered and proposals to ensure the proper conduct of business. Administrative Structure of the Council of Ministers
Article 30
مرفق المادة
The administrative structure of the Council of Ministers shall be composed of the following agencies:
1. The General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers.