English_Succession Commission Law

Succession Commission Law
1427 هـ
Succession Commission Law
Article 1
A commission called the Succession Commission shall be formed pursuant to a Royal Order as follows:
The sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud. A son of every deceased, declining, or incapacitated (as per a medical report) to be appointed by the King from among the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud, provided that he is known for his righteousness and competence. Two members to be appointed by the King, one from among his sons and the other from the sons of the Crown Prince, provided that they are known for their righteousness and competence. And if the place of any member of the Succession Commission becomes vacant, the King shall appoint a substitute in accordance with the conditions referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this Article. Article 2
The Commission shall exercise the duties entrusted to it in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance. Article 3
The Commission shall adhere to the Book of Allah and the Sunnah of His Prophet, Muhammad may Allah’s peace and blessings be upon him, maintain the State’s entity, uphold the solidarity and cooperation of the royal family, and guard against its dissention, and preserve national unity and the interests of the people. Article 4
The seat of the Commission shall be in the city of Riyadh and its meetings shall be held at the Royal Court, and they may be held, with the King’s approval, at any of the Royal Courts in the Kingdom or any other place specified by the King. Article 5
The Commission’s chairman, members, and secretary general shall take the following oath before the King and prior to assuming their duties in the Commission:
“I swear to Allah God Almighty to be loyal to my Religion, then to my King and Country. I swear not to reveal any of the State’s secrets, to protect its interests and laws,  to safeguard the solidarity and cooperation of the royal family and national unity, and to discharge my duties with honesty, integrity, sincerity, and fairness.”
Article 6
Upon the King’s death, the Commission shall call for the pledge of allegiance to the Crown Prince as King of the country in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance. Article 7
A. After receiving the pledge of allegiance and after consultation with members of the Commission, the King shall nominate one, two, or three candidates from among those he deems fit to be Crown Prince. Such nomination shall be brought before the Commission which shall exert effort to agree on one nominee to be named Crown Prince. In case the Commission does not nominate any of them, then it shall nominate whomever it deems fit to be Crown Prince. B. The King may at any time ask the Commission to nominate whom it deems fit to be Crown Prince. In case the King does not approve the Commission’s nominee in accordance with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Article, the Commission shall vote on its nominee and another chosen by the King, and the one with the majority of votes shall be named Crown Prince. Article 8
A nominee for Crown Prince must satisfy the provisions of Article 5(b) of the Basic Law of Governance. Article 9
The Crown Prince shall be chosen in accordance with the provision of Article 7 within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of the pledge of allegiance to the King. Article 10
The Commission shall form a provisional council for governance from five of its members. The Council shall run the State’s affairs temporarily in the cases provided for in this Law. However, the Council shall in no case have the power to amend the Basic Law of Governance, this Law, the Law of the Council of Ministers, the Law of the Shura Council, the Law of Provinces, the Law of the National Security Council, or any other law relating to governance, nor to dissolve or reconstitute the Council of Ministers or the Shura Council. The Council shall, during the transitional period, safeguard the unity of the State, its internal and external interests, and its laws. Article 11
In case the Council is convinced that the King is incapable of exercising his powers for health reasons, the Commission shall entrust the medical committee provided for in this Law to prepare a medical report on the health condition of the King. If the medical report proves that the inability of the King to exercise his powers is temporary, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect. Henceforth, the King’s powers shall be exercised temporarily by the Crown Prince until the recovery of the King. When a written notice from the King reaches the Chairman of the Commission informing him that the medical reasons for his inability to exercise his powers no longer exist or when the Commission is convinced of the same, it shall direct said medical committee to prepare a medical report on the King’s health condition within a period not exceeding 24 hours. If the medical report confirms the ability of the King to exercise his powers, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect; henceforth, the King shall resume exercising his powers. However, if the medical report proves that the inability of the King to exercise his powers is permanent, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect. Henceforth, the Commission shall call for the pledge of allegiance to the Crown Prince as King of the Country, provided that these procedures are carried out in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance within a period not exceeding 24 hours. Article 12
In case the Commission is convinced that both the King and the Crown Prince are incapable of exercising their powers for health reasons, the Commission shall request the medical committee provided for in this Law to prepare a medical report on their health condition. If the medical report confirms that their inability to exercise their power is temporary, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect; henceforth, the Provisional Council of Governance shall run the State’s affairs and look after the people’s interests until the recovery of either of them. When a written notice is received by the Commission from the King or the Crown Prince that he has recovered or when the Commission is convinced of said recovery, it shall direct said medical committee to prepare a medical report on his condition within a period not exceeding 24 hours. If the medical report confirms the ability of either of them to exercise his powers, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect; henceforth, he shall resume exercising his powers. However, if the medical report proves that their inability is permanent, the Commission shall prepare minutes to this effect, and the Provisional Council of Governance shall run the State’s affairs, provided that the Commission shall, within a period not exceeding seven days, choose the most fit for governance from among the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud and the sons of the sons and call for pledge allegiance to him as King of the Country in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance. Article 13
In case of the death of both the King and the Crown Prince at the same time, the Commission shall, within a period not exceeding seven days, choose the most fit for governance from among the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud and the sons of the sons and call for pledging allegiance to him as King of the Country, in accordance with this Law and the Basic Law of Governance. The Provisional Council of Governance shall run the State’s affairs until the pledge of allegiance is given. Article 14
A medical committee shall be formed of the following:-
The medical director of the royal clinics.