The powers of the absent minister shall be assumed by the acting minister. Formation of the Council of Ministers
Article 12
The Council of Ministers shall be composed of the following:
a)    President of the Council of Ministers;
b)    Deputies of the President of the Council of Ministers;
c)    Ministers with portfolios;
d)    Ministers of State appointed as members of the Council of Ministers by royal order; and
e)    Counselors to the King, who are appointed as members of the Council of Ministers by royal order. Article 13
The right to attend meetings of the Council of Ministers shall be exclusive to its members and the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers. At the request of the President or a Council member and upon the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers, an official or expert may attend the meetings of the Council, in a non-voting capacity, to present information and clarifications. Article 14
A meeting of the Council of Ministers shall not be valid unless attended by two-thirds of its members. Resolutions shall not be valid unless passed by a majority of the members present. In case of a tie, the President shall have the casting vote. In extraordinary cases, Council meetings may be considered valid with half of the members present. In such cases, resolutions shall not be considered valid without the approval of two-thirds of the members present. The President of the Council of Ministers shall determine such cases. Article 15
The Council of Ministers shall not, unless deemed necessary, pass a resolution on a matter related to the activities of a ministry except in the presence of the minister concerned or his designee. Article 16
Deliberations of the Council shall be confidential. As a general rule, its resolutions shall be made public, except when deemed classified pursuant to a resolution by the Council. Article 17
Members of the Council of Ministers shall be tried for violations they commit in the discharge of their official duties, pursuant to a special law which states the violations and specifies the procedures for prosecution and trial as well as the formation of the tribunal. Article 18
The Council of Ministers may form committees from among its members or from non-members to review an item on the agenda of the Council and prepare a special report thereon. The Internal Regulations of the Council shall specify the number of committees and procedures thereof. Powers of the Council of Ministers
Article 19
Without prejudice to the Basic Law of Governance and the Law of the Shura Council, the Council of Ministers shall have the power to set the internal, foreign, financial, economic, educational, and defense policies as well as the general affairs of the State, and shall oversee their implementation; and it shall review Shura Council resolutions. It shall have the executive authority and be the final authority in the financial and administrative affairs of all ministries and other government agencies. Legislative Affairs
Article 20
Laws, treaties, international agreements, and concessions shall be issued and amended by royal decrees upon review by the Council of Ministers, without prejudice to the Law of the Shura Council. Article 21
The Council of Ministers shall review draft laws and regulations brought before it and vote on each article separately and then as a whole, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Internal Regulations of the Council. Article 22
Each minister shall have the right to propose a draft law or regulation related to the affairs of his ministry. Each member of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to propose issues of interest to be discussed by the Council upon the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers. Article 23
All decrees shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force on the date of publication unless another date is stipulated. Executive Affairs
Article 24
The Council, being the direct executive authority, shall have full power over all executive and administrative affairs. The following shall be included in its executive powers:
1. monitoring the implementation of laws, regulations, and resolutions;
2.