The Committee shall issue the medical reports referred to in this Law and it may seek the assistance of any physician it chooses. Article 15
The Commission shall be presided over by the eldest member of the sons of the Founder-King Abdulaziz ibn Abdurrahman Al-Faisal Al-Saud and he shall be represented by the second eldest of his brothers, and in their absence, the meeting shall be presided over by the eldest of the sons of the sons in the Commission. Article 16
Meetings of the Commission are secret and such meetings shall be held with the King’s approval, provided that they shall not be attended except by the members and secretary general in addition to the person entrusted with recording its deliberations upon the King’s approval. The Commission may summon, upon the approval of the King, any one to give explanations or information in a non-voting capacity. Article 17
The Chairman of the Commission shall be responsible for calling for its meetings in the cases provided for in Articles 6, 11, 12, and 13 of this Law. Article 18
Members of the Commission must attend the meetings of the Commission, and if any member has an excuse that justifies his absence from any meeting, he should inform the Chairman of the Commission in writing, and no member shall withdraw finally from a Commission meeting before it ends except with the permission of the chairman of the meeting. Article 19
The chairman of the meeting shall open meetings and announce their end, control discussions, give permission to talk, determine the topic of discussion, end discussions, and put issues for voting. The Commission may discuss any issue not listed on its agenda upon the approval of 10 of its members. Article 20
Meetings of the Commission shall not be valid unless attended by at least two thirds of its members including the Chairman of the Commission or his representative. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 7, the Commission's resolutions shall be taken by majority vote of its attending members; in case of a tie, the chairman of the meeting shall have the casting vote. In emergency cases, where the legal quorum is not available, meetings of the Commission may be held with the presence of half of its members, and in such cases, its resolutions shall be taken by the approval of two thirds of the attending members. Article 21
Minutes shall be prepared for each meeting to record the following information: place of the meeting, date of the meeting, time of opening the meeting, name of the meeting chairman, names of members present, names of members absent and reasons of absence, if any, name of secretary general, summary of discussions, number of consenting and dissenting votes, result of voting, texts of the resolutions, matters related to postponement or suspension of the meeting, the time at which the meeting ended, and any other issues the chairman of the meeting finds necessary to be recorded. The minutes shall be signed by the chairman of the meeting, attending members , and the secretary general. Article 22
Voting related to the Commission's resolutions shall be conducted by secret ballot in accordance with a form prepared for this purpose. Article 23
Commission members shall peruse the agenda and enclosures at the place of the meeting, but shall not be entitled to take the documents of the Commission outside the place of meeting. Article 24
The King shall appoint a secretary general for the Commission who shall be responsible for finalizing the procedures of calling for the meetings of the Commission, supervising the drafting of minutes and resolutions, and releasing information relating to its meetings in accordance with the decisions of the Chairman of the Commission. The secretary general may, upon the approval of the King, seek the assistance of anyone he chooses, and the King shall appoint a deputy for the secretary general to carry out the duties of the secretary general in his absence. Article 25
The provisions of this Law may be amended by royal order subject to the approval of the Succession Commission.