3.The luring and exploitation of minors and the like. 4.The offender has been previously convicted of similar crimes within or outside the Kingdom. Article 9
Any person who incites, assists, or collaborates with others to commit any of the crimes stipulated in this Law shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding the maximum punishment prescribed for such crimes, if the crime is committed as a result of said incitement, assistance, or collaboration, and he shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding half the maximum prescribed punishment if the intended crime is not committed. Article 10
Any person who attempts to commit any of the crimes stipulated in this Law shall be subject to a punishment not exceeding half the maximum punishment prescribed for said crimes. Article 11
The competent court may exempt any offender from such punishments if he informs the competent authority of the crime prior to its discovery and prior to the infliction of damage. If the culprit informs the competent authority after the occurrence of the crime, the exemption from punishment shall be granted if the information he provides eventually leads to the arrest of other culprits (if any) or the seizure of the means used in the commission of the crime. Article 12
Application of this Law shall not prejudice the provisions of relevant laws, especially those pertaining to intellectual property rights, or relevant international agreements to which the Kingdom is party. Article 13
Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide persons, equipment, software, and means used in perpetrating any of the crimes stipulated in this Law or the proceeds generated therefrom may be confiscated. In addition, the web site or venue where the service is provided may be shut down permanently or temporarily if it is the source for perpetrating the crime and the crime is committed with the owner's knowledge. Article 14
The Communications and Information Technology Commission, pursuant to its powers, shall provide assistance and technical support to competent security agencies during the investigation of such crimes and during trial. Article 15
The Bureau of Investigation and Public Prosecution shall carry out the investigation and prosecution of the crimes stipulated in this Law. Article 16
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 120 days after the date of publication.