English_Anti-Harassment Law

Anti-Harassment Law
1439 هـ
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
Royal Decree
Royal Decree
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
Council of Ministers Resolution
Council of Ministers Resolution
Anti-Harassment Law
Article 1
For the application of this Law, the crime of harassment shall mean any utterance, act or gesture of a sexual nature made by a person that impinges on another person’s body, honor or modesty by any means, including modern technologies. Article 2
This Law aims to combat the crime of harassment, prevent its occurrence, punish perpetrators and protect victims, in order to preserve the privacy, dignity and personal freedom of individuals guaranteed by Sharia and law. Article 3
1. A victim’s non-filing or withdrawal of a complaint shall not preclude the competent authorities from taking any action they deem to serve public interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Criminal Procedures and other relevant laws. 2. A person who witnesses a case of harassment may report the incident to the competent authorities to take action in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. Article 4
1. Any person who, by virtue of his work, becomes privy to any case of harassment shall maintain the confidentiality thereof. 2. The identity of the victim shall not be disclosed, except in the course of evidence collection, investigation or trial. Article 5
1. The relevant departments within government and private entities shall set measures necessary to prevent and combat harassment in the work environment, including:
a)    a mechanism for receiving complaints within the entity;
b)    procedures necessary for verifying the complaints and maintaining confidentiality thereof; and
c)    Publication of such measures and informing staff thereof. 2. The relevant departments within government and private entities shall take disciplinary measures against any of their personnel in case of any violation of the provisions of this Law, in accordance with their applicable procedures. 3. Disciplinary measures according to this Article shall not prejudice the victim’s right to file a complaint with the competent authorities. Article 6
1. Subject to paragraph 2 of this Article, and without prejudice to any penalty prescribed by Sharia or any harsher penalty provided for by any other law, any person who commits a crime of harassment shall be subject to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and a fine not exceeding 100,000 riyals, or to either penalty;
2. The crime of harassment shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years and a fine not exceeding 300,000 riyals, or by either penalty, in case the offense is repeated or coupled with any of the following:
a)    if the victim is a child;
b)    if the victim is a person with special needs;
c)    if the perpetrator has direct or indirect authority over the victim;
d)    if the offence occurs in a workplace, place of study, shelter or care center;
e)    if the perpetrator and the victim are of the same sex;
f)    if the victim is asleep, unconscious or in any similar state at the time of the crime; or
g)    if the crime occurs in times of crisis, disaster or accidents. تعديلات المادة
Article 7
1.