Article 3
A member of the Council of Ministers shall:
a)    be a Saudi national by descent and upbringing;
b)    be well known for being upright and competent; and
c)    not have been convicted of a crime impinging on religion or honor. Article 4
Members of the Council of Ministers may not assume their duties until they take the following oath: “I swear by Almighty Allah to be loyal to my religion, then to my King and my country. I swear not to reveal any of the State’s secrets, to protect its interests and laws, and to perform my duties with honesty, integrity, and sincerity.”
Article 5
Membership of the Council of Ministers may not be combined with any other government post, unless it is deemed necessary by the President of the Council of Ministers. Article 6
A member of the Council of Ministers may not, while in office, buy or lease, directly or through a proxy, or by public auction, any of the properties of the State. He may not sell or rent any of his property to the government. Furthermore, he may not engage in any commercial or financial activities or accept board membership in any company. Article 7
Meetings of the Council of Ministers are presided over by the President of the Council of Ministers (the King), or one of his deputies. The resolutions of the Council of Ministers shall become final upon the King’s approval. Article 8
Members of the Council of Ministers shall be appointed, relieved from office, and have their resignations accepted by royal order. Their responsibilities shall be specified in accordance with Articles 57 and 58 of the Basic Law of Governance. The Internal Regulations of the Council shall stipulate their rights. Article 9
The term of the Council of Ministers shall not exceed four years, during which a new Council shall be reconstituted by royal order. If the term expires before the reconstitution of the new Council, the current Council shall continue performing its duties until the new one is reconstituted. Article 10
A minister shall be in charge of his ministry and shall be the final authority in managing its affairs and shall carry out his duties in accordance with the provisions of this Law and other laws and regulations. Article 11
A. Only a minister may act on behalf of another minister in the Council of Ministers, pursuant to an order issued by the President of the Council of Ministers. B.